Add "Create your first connector with Ballerina" featured scenario to the learn pages (#9434)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: swan-lake/resources/featured-scenarios/create-your-first-connector-with-ballerina.md

---
layout: ballerina-create-your-first-connector-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: Create your first connector with Ballerina
description: step-by-step guide to create Ballerina connectors using OpenAPI specifications.
keywords: ballerina, connector, library, REST, API, openAPI, Ballerina Central
permalink: /learn/create-your-first-connector-with-ballerina/
active: create-your-first-connector-with-ballerina
intro: This guide walks you through creating your first Ballerina connector using an OpenAPI specification.
---

## Introduction

> Ballerina is a programming language designed for smooth integration, offering a large library of pre-built connectors. These connectors are special packages that make it easy to communicate with external services, usually through REST APIs. By using connectors, developers can quickly integrate third-party services into their Ballerina applications without having to worry about the technical details of API interactions.

Reviewer: Shall we redo the first part of the first sentence? Reads more like Ballerina is easy to integrate.

Author: How about "Ballerina is a programming language **that simplifies integration by providing a large library of pre-built connectors**"?

> Ballerina is a programming language designed for smooth integration, offering a large library of pre-built connectors. These connectors are special packages that make it easy to communicate with external services, usually through REST APIs. By using connectors, developers can quickly integrate third-party services into their Ballerina applications without having to worry about the technical details of API interactions.

Reviewer: Should we mention the term "client" somewhere here?

Author: How about `These connectors are special packages consisting of one or more [Ballerina clients](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/client-class/), which allows to communicate with external services, usually through REST APIs.` ?

> Along with its powerful library ecosystem, Ballerina also allows developers to easily create, share, and manage their own custom connectors. These connectors can be published on Ballerina Central, making them available for the entire community to use and reuse in their projects.

Reviewer: use and reuse can by just use?

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/commit/f1e8c0398b0c20bf45919b271db5f7fadb13707a

In this guide, we'll walk you through how to generate your first Ballerina connector using an OpenAPI specification. This is one of the fastest and easiest ways to build connectors, helping you quickly integrate external services into your Ballerina projects.

## Set up the prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have:

> 1. A basic understanding of Ballerina SwanLake and the [latest version installed](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A basic understanding of Ballerina Swan Lake and the [latest version installed](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).
```

> 2. An OpenAPI specification of the API for which you’re building the connector, along with API credentials (e.g., Twitter Developer account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. An OpenAPI specification of the API for which you’re building the connector, along with the relevant API credentials where required (e.g., Twitter Developer account).
```

> 3. A GitHub account, and Git installed locally.

Reviewer: Is this and getting started with a GH repo really required? If at all, I feel like it should come at the end, since it is not mandatory.

Author: Although this is not required for publishing, having the recommended project structure is required to house all the standard components of a Ballerina connector (tests, examples, CI/CD workflows, build scripts, other docs), keeping the standard connector structure will also make it easier for the users to contribute the same project as a Ballerina official connector in the future. So we thought of going with the repo approach as a required step. wdyt?

Author: Yeah the ideal flow would be to have a standard github project template for connectors and, ask from the users to just clone it. 

But since Github project template doesn't support template variables, we can't use that path. so we have to have to ask from the users to create their own empty repo, clone it, and copy the content from our provided template.

Reviewer: I would still say this is optional and only required if you want to push the changes to GitHub.

   ├── gradle.properties
   ├── gradlew
   ├── gradlew.bat
   └── settings.gradle
   ```

> **Tip**: The template includes placeholders for various fields. To update them with your connector-specific metadata, use the provided [Ballerina script](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/blob/main/library-templates/generated-connector-template/scripts/replace_placeholders.bal).

Detailed information on the Ballerina connector structure can be found in the [Ballerina module contribution guide](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/blob/main/docs/adding-a-new-ballerina-module.md#directory-structure).

## Step 2: Prepare the OpenAPI Specification

1. Find the OpenAPI specification for the API you want to create a connector for. This is usually available in the API documentation.
   Example: For Twitter, you can get the latest API specification from the [Twitter OpenAPI endpoint](https://api.twitter.com/2/openapi.json).

2. Save the file as `spec.yaml` (or `spec.json`) in the `docs/spec` directory of your project.

3. You may need to sanitize the OpenAPI specification to ensure compatibility with the Ballerina OpenAPI tool. This process may involve:

>    - Renaming schema names to comply with Ballerina naming conventions.

Reviewer: Is this really naming convention? If so, don't we have a CLI option to do this automatically, during generation?

Author: we dont have that support right now, but it will be available with U11. So I'll update the example with a more appropriate scenario.

   - Adding, removing, or modifying security schemes to customize authentication options.

## Step 3: Generate the Ballerina client code

With your OpenAPI spec ready, use the [Ballerina OpenAPI tool](https://ballerina.io/learn/openapi-tool/) to generate the connector code.

1. In your terminal, run the following command from the project root:

>    ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

      ```
````

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/f1e8c0398b0c20bf45919b271db5f7fadb13707a

   bal openapi -i path/to/spec --mode client -o ballerina
   ```

>    This will generate the ballerina source code of the connector client in your `ballerina/` directory.

Reviewer: connector client or client connector?

Author: +1 for client connector

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/25444cee3c67cbe26565114aff1190140114d44b

> > **Note:** Ballerina OpenAPI tool supports multiple customization options when generating clients. For more details, check the [Ballerina OpenAPI tool documentation](https://ballerina.io/learn/openapi-tool/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The Ballerina OpenAPI tool supports multiple customization options when generating clients. For more details, check the [Ballerina OpenAPI tool documentation](https://ballerina.io/learn/openapi-tool/).
```

> 2. Make sure that the generated client consists of the following files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Make sure that the generated client implementation consists of the following files:
```

Why does the developer need to make sure though?

   - `client.bal`: Contains the client implementation with all the API operations.
   - `types.bal`: Contains the data types used in the client.
   - `utils.bal`: Contains utility functions used in the client.

## Step 4: Test the connector

> Now that your connector is generated, it’s important to write tests to ensure everything works as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that your connector is generated, it is important to write tests to ensure everything works as expected.
```

> 1. In the `ballerina/tests` directory, add the required test files and write test cases for the key operations of your connector. Aim to cover as many API use cases as possible.

Reviewer: Is the directory correct?

Author: yes, correct. the complete project structure is already added in L42.

2. Execute the tests using the `bal test` command to verify the functionality of your connector.

> For detailed guidance on writing tests, check the [Ballerina testing guide](https://ballerina.io/learn/test-ballerina-code/test-a-simple-function/).

> For sample implementations, refer to the [test implementation of the Ballerina Twitter connector](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/tree/main/ballerina/tests).

## Step 5: Document the connector

Follow these steps to ensure your connector is well-documented:

1. Update `Module.md` and `Package.md` files

> These files will be displayed on the Ballerina Central package landing page. Ensure they introduce and explain the connector package clearly and comprehensively. Each file should include the following sections:

Reviewer: May have to be indented.

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/7b6290006703ddda90e785b37d5a853c1b3f773d

- **Overview**: Provide a concise introduction to the connector, explaining its purpose and key features.
- **Setup**: Offer step-by-step instructions on configuring the connector and any necessary prerequisites, such as API keys or environment setup.

> - **Quickstart**: Include a simple, clear example that helps users start using the connector immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Quickstart**: Include a simple, clear example that enable users to start using the connector immediately.
```

> For reference, check the [Twitter connector documentation](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/blob/main/ballerina/Module.md).

2. Update the `README.md` file

This file will be displayed on the GitHub repository landing page. Therefore, it should include the same information as `Module.md` with a few additional sections such as `Building from Source`, `Contributing`, `License`, etc.

> For reference, check the [Twitter connector README](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/blob/main/README.md).

3. Write example use cases (optional)

Providing practical examples helps users understand the connector better. These examples should show how the connector is used in real-world scenarios.

- All the examples should be added under the `examples/` directory.
- Each example should be added as a Ballerina package with its own `README.md` file, explaining the use case and how to run the example.

> For reference, check the [Twitter connector examples](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/tree/main/examples).

## Step 6: Publish the connector

> Once you’ve completed the development and testing of your connector, it’s time to publish it for others to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have completed the development and testing of your connector, you can publish it for others to use.
```

> 1. Make sure to update the `Ballerina.toml` file with the following details:

Reviewer: Do we have to mention what's mandatory. For example, may be misunderstood as the email address being mandatory, which may cause concerns.

Author: Yes, agreed. Updated and mentioned optional fields in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/f1e8c0398b0c20bf45919b271db5f7fadb13707a

   - `org`: Your organization name.
   - `name`: The name of your connector.
   - `version`: The version of your connector.
   - `license`: The license under which your connector is distributed.
   - `authors`: Your name and email address.
   - `keywords`: Keywords to help users find your connector.

>    - `icon`: The relative path to the icon file.

Reviewer: We have to explain what the icon file is?

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/f1e8c0398b0c20bf45919b271db5f7fadb13707a

   - `repository`: The URL of your GitHub repository.

2. Follow the steps in the [Ballerina package publishing guide](https://ballerina.io/learn/publish-packages-to-ballerina-central/) to publish your connector to [Ballerina Central](https://central.ballerina.io/) under your organization.

## Conclusion

> If you’ve followed these steps, you’ve successfully created your first Ballerina connector! This process allows you to quickly integrate external services and share your connector with the Ballerina community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have successfully created your first Ballerina connector! This process allows you to quickly integrate external services and share your connector with the Ballerina community.
```

2. An OpenAPI specification of the API for which you’re building the connector, along with the relevant API credentials where required (e.g., Twitter Developer account).
3. A GitHub account, and Git installed locally.
4. Visual Studio Code with the [Ballerina extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.ballerina).

## Step 1: Set the project structure

1. Create a new GitHub repository with an appropriate name. For Ballerina official connectors, the repository name will follow the pattern: `module-ballerinax-<connector-name>` (e.g., `module-ballerinax-twitter`). But for custom connectors, you can choose a name that suits your connector.

2. Clone your newly created repository to your local machine:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/<connector-repo-name>.git
   cd <connector-repo-name>
   ```

3. Visit the [Ballerina generated connector template on GitHub](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/tree/main/library-templates/generated-connector-template/files) and copy the entire project structure and content to your local repository folder, making sure to include all files and directories.

> 4. Your local project structure should now look similar to this:

Author: Updated in Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/7b6290006703ddda90e785b37d5a853c1b3f773d

---
layout: ballerina-create-your-first-connector-left-nav-pages-swanlake
title: Create your first connector with Ballerina
description: step-by-step guide to create Ballerina connectors using OpenAPI specifications.
keywords: ballerina, connector, library, REST, API, openAPI, Ballerina Central
permalink: /learn/create-your-first-connector-with-ballerina/
active: create-your-first-connector-with-ballerina
intro: This guide walks you through creating your first Ballerina connector using an OpenAPI specification.
---

## Introduction

Ballerina is a programming language designed for smooth integration, offering a large library of pre-built connectors. These connectors are special packages that make it easy to communicate with external services, usually through REST APIs. By using connectors, developers can quickly integrate third-party services into their Ballerina applications without having to worry about the technical details of API interactions.

> Along with its powerful library ecosystem, Ballerina also allows developers to easily create, share, and manage their own custom connectors. These connectors can be published on Ballerina Central, making them available for the entire community to use and reuse in their projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Along with its powerful library ecosystem, Ballerina also allows developers to easily create, share, and manage their own custom connectors. These connectors can be published on [Ballerina Central](https://central.ballerina.io/), making them available for the entire community to use and reuse in their projects.
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/commit/7f3e76648db2831c1d956d733e403ad1999cc40d

In this guide, we'll walk you through how to generate your first Ballerina connector using an OpenAPI specification. This is one of the fastest and easiest ways to build connectors, helping you quickly integrate external services into your Ballerina projects.

## Set up the prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have:

1. A basic understanding of Ballerina SwanLake and the [latest version installed](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).
2. An OpenAPI specification of the API for which you’re building the connector, along with API credentials (e.g., Twitter Developer account).
3. A GitHub account, and Git installed locally.
4. Visual Studio Code with the [Ballerina extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.ballerina).

## Step 1: Set the project structure

1. Create a new GitHub repository with an appropriate name. For Ballerina official connectors, the repository name will follow the pattern: `module-ballerinax-<connector-name>` (e.g., `module-ballerinax-twitter`). But for custom connectors, you can choose a name that suits your connector.

2. Clone your newly created empty repository to your local machine:

>    ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```
```
Remove bash to avoid incorrect syntax highlighting.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/7f3e76648db2831c1d956d733e403ad1999cc40d

>    git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/<connector-repo-name>.git

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   $ git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/<connector-repo-name>.git
```
Add a `$` if you want the users to be able to copy this line

Author: In this guide all the commands are just templates. Allowing users to copy and paste them might give the impression that these commands are directly executable. So I'm more towards to keep them as it is. wdyt?

## Step 2: Prepare the OpenAPI Specification

1. Find the OpenAPI specification for the API you want to create a connector for. This is usually available in the API documentation.
   Example: For Twitter, you can get the latest API specification from the [Twitter OpenAPI endpoint](https://api.twitter.com/2/openapi.json).

2. Save the file as `spec.yaml` (or `spec.json`) in the `docs/spec` directory of your project.

3. You may need to sanitize the OpenAPI specification to ensure compatibility with the Ballerina OpenAPI tool. This process may involve:
   - Renaming schema names to comply with Ballerina naming conventions.
   - Adding, removing, or modifying security schemes to customize authentication options.

## Step 3: Generate the Ballerina client code

With your OpenAPI spec ready, use the [Ballerina OpenAPI tool](https://ballerina.io/learn/openapi-tool/) to generate the connector code.

1. In your terminal, run the following command from the project root:

>    ```bash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```
```

>    ```bash
>    bal openapi -i path/to/spec --mode client -o ballerina

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```
   $ bal openapi -i path/to/spec --mode client -o ballerina
```

>    ```bash
>    bal openapi -i path/to/spec --mode client -o ballerina
>    ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ```
   $ bal openapi -i path/to/spec --mode client -o ballerina
   ```
```

Author: https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434#discussion_r1770737567

   bal openapi -i docs/spec/openapi.json --mode client -o ballerina
   ```

   This will generate the connector code in your `ballerina` directory.

2. Make sure that the generated client consists of the following files:
   - `client.bal`: Contains the client implementation with all the API operations.
   - `types.bal`: Contains the data types used in the client.
   - `utils.bal`: Contains utility functions used in the client.

## Step 4: Test the connector

Now that your connector is generated, it’s important to write tests to ensure everything works as expected.

1. In the `ballerina/tests` directory, add the required test files and write test cases for the key operations of your connector. Aim to cover as many API use cases as possible.

2. Execute the tests using the `bal test` command to verify the functionality of your connector.

> For detailed guidance on writing tests, check the [Ballerina testing guide](https://ballerina.io/learn/test-ballerina-code/test-a-simple-function/).

> For sample implementations, refer to the [test implementation of the Ballerina Twitter connector](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/tree/main/ballerina/tests).

> ## Step 5: Document the Connector

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/commit/7f3e76648db2831c1d956d733e403ad1999cc40d

- **Overview**: Provide a concise introduction to the connector, explaining its purpose and key features.
- **Setup**: Offer step-by-step instructions on configuring the connector and any necessary prerequisites, such as API keys or environment setup.
- **Quickstart**: Include a simple, clear example that helps users start using the connector immediately.
- **Examples**: Link to additional use cases, providing context on how the connector can be used in different scenarios.

> For reference, check the [Twitter connector documentation](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/blob/main/ballerina/Module.md).

2. Update the `README.md` file

This file will be displayed on the GitHub repository landing page. Therefore, it should include the same information as `Module.md` with a few additional sections such as `Building from Source`, `Contributing`, `License`, etc.

> For reference, check the [Twitter connector README](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/blob/main/README.md).

> 3. Write Example Use Cases (Optional)

Reviewer 2: Should be in sentence case.

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/commit/7f3e76648db2831c1d956d733e403ad1999cc40d

---

## Introduction

Ballerina is a programming language that simplifies integration by providing a large library of pre-built connectors. These connectors are special packages consisting of one or more [Ballerina clients](https://ballerina.io/learn/by-example/client-class/), which allow communication with external services, usually via REST APIs. By using connectors, developers can quickly integrate third-party services into their Ballerina applications without having to worry about the technical details of API interactions.

Along with its powerful library ecosystem, Ballerina also allows developers to easily create, share, and manage client connectors. These connectors are typically published on Ballerina Central as public connectors, available to the entire community, but you can also publish them as private connectors for internal use within your organization.

In this guide, we'll walk you through how to generate your first Ballerina connector using an OpenAPI specification. This is one of the fastest and easiest ways to build connectors, enabling you to quickly integrate external services into your Ballerina projects.

> ## Set up the prerequisites

Reviewer 3: IMO `Prerequisites` would be enough as it is concise and clear.

Author: +1. updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/6dc1f93b6ef0158c9cec6637e341db136b2c5385

Before we begin, make sure you have:

1. A basic understanding of Ballerina Swan Lake and the [latest version installed](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).
2. An OpenAPI specification of the API for which you’re building the connector, along with the relevant API credentials where required (e.g., Twitter Developer account keys).
3. A GitHub account, and Git installed locally.
4. Visual Studio Code with the [Ballerina extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.ballerina) installed.

## Step 1: Set the project structure

> 1. Create a new GitHub repository with an appropriate name. For Ballerina official connectors, the repository name follows the pattern: `module-ballerinax-<connector-name>` (e.g., `module-ballerinax-twitter`). But for custom connectors, you can choose a name that suits your connector.

Reviewer 3: IMO if we are writing a generic connector (OAS based) development guide the repository name pattern `module-ballerinax-<connector-name>` is not appropriate as in the above template `ballerinax` denotes the package organization.

IMO there are two ways to tackle this:
1. If we planning to write a more generic guide, then the appropriate naming convention would be `module-<org>-<connector-name>`, then we could add this to the Ballerina learn page.
2. If we focusing on Ballerina connector hackathon (externalizing the dev effort), then this should be list under the page where we announce the event.

Author: @ayeshLK updated the section mentioning that 
1. you wish to contribute as an official connector, developer can reachout to the ballerina team
2. if not, they can choose any repo name which reflects their connector (I doubt if forcing them to follow a convention like `module-<org>-<connector-name>` in this would make much sense)

Author: updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/commit/6dc1f93b6ef0158c9cec6637e341db136b2c5385

2. Clone your newly created repository to your local machine:

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/<connector-repo-name>.git
   cd <connector-repo-name>
   ```

3. Visit the [Ballerina generated connector template on GitHub](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/tree/main/library-templates/generated-connector-template/files) and copy the entire project structure and content to your local repository folder, making sure to include all files and directories.

4. Your local project structure should now look similar to this:

   ```
   module-ballerinax-myconnector/
   ├── .github/
   ├── ballerina/
   |   ├── tests/
   │   ├── Ballerina.toml
   │   ├── Module.md
   │   ├── Package.md
   │   ├── build.gradle
   │   └── client.bal
   ├── build-config/
   ├── docs/
   │   └── spec/

>    │       └── sanitations.md

Reviewer 4: Shall we add the OpenAPI specification file here?

> **Tip**: The template includes placeholders for various fields. To update them with your connector-specific metadata, use the provided [Ballerina script](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/blob/main/library-templates/generated-connector-template/scripts/replace_placeholders.bal).

Detailed information on the Ballerina connector structure can be found in the [Ballerina module contribution guide](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/blob/main/docs/adding-a-new-ballerina-module.md#directory-structure).

## Step 2: Prepare the OpenAPI Specification

1. Find the OpenAPI specification for the API you want to create a connector for. This is usually available in the API documentation.
   Example: For Twitter, you can get the latest API specification from the [Twitter OpenAPI endpoint](https://api.twitter.com/2/openapi.json).

2. Save the file as `spec.yaml` (or `spec.json`) in the `docs/spec` directory of your project.

3. You may need to sanitize the OpenAPI specification to ensure compatibility with the Ballerina OpenAPI tool. This process may involve:
   - adding, removing, or modifying security schemes to customize authentication options.

>    - redefining inline schemas as named schemas to avoid duplication and improve readability.

Reviewer 4: Shall we have something like this here?
"After the sanitization, the changes should be added to the `sanitations.md` file"

Author: +1. updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9434/commits/6dc1f93b6ef0158c9cec6637e341db136b2c5385

   > For reference, check the [Twitter connector documentation](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/blob/main/ballerina/Module.md).

2. Update the `README.md` file

   This file will be displayed on the GitHub repository landing page. Therefore, it should include the same information as `Module.md` with a few additional sections such as `Building from Source`, `Contributing`, `License`, etc.
   
   > For reference, check the [Twitter connector README](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/blob/main/README.md).

3. Write example use cases (optional)

   Providing practical examples helps users understand the connector better. These examples should show how the connector is used in real-world scenarios.

   - All the examples should be added under the `examples/` directory.
   - Each example should be added as a Ballerina package with its own `README.md` file, explaining the use case and how to run the example.

   > For reference, check the [Twitter connector examples](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/tree/main/examples).

> ## Step 6: Publish the connector

Reviewer 3: I assume the connector template has Github workflows (connector related), which includes a connector publishing workflow. Wouldn't it be better if we provide the information to setup the BCentral token in the Github repository so that they could just use the workflow to publish the connector ?

Author: Since our standard workflow templates are having other secrets in addition to the central token to be set up, asking them to follow the standard publishing procedure would make this guide simpler IMO. wdyt?

Along with its powerful library ecosystem, Ballerina also allows developers to easily create, share, and manage client connectors. These connectors are typically published on Ballerina Central as public connectors, available to the entire community, but you can also publish them as private connectors for internal use within your organization.

In this guide, we'll walk you through how to generate your first Ballerina connector using an OpenAPI specification. This is one of the fastest and easiest ways to build connectors, enabling you to quickly integrate external services into your Ballerina projects.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have:

1. A basic understanding of Ballerina Swan Lake and the [latest version installed](https://ballerina.io/downloads/).
2. An OpenAPI specification of the API for which you’re building the connector, along with the relevant API credentials where required (e.g., Twitter Developer account keys).
3. A GitHub account, and Git installed locally.
4. Visual Studio Code with the [Ballerina extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=WSO2.ballerina) installed.

## Step 1: Set the project structure

> > **Important**:If you'd like to contribute your project as an official Ballerina connector, you can skip the steps below and, reach out to the Ballerina team to create a new repository (under [`ballerina-platform`](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/) organization) and to set up the initial project structure. 

Reviewer 5: Few points:
- Missing space after `Important:`
- `Reach out to Ballerina team` is not good from community POV. At least mention how to reach? Via discord?

Author: +1. Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9507.

4. Your local project structure should now look similar to this:

   ```
   module-ballerinax-myconnector/
   ├── .github/
   ├── ballerina/
   |   ├── tests/
   │   ├── Ballerina.toml
   │   ├── Module.md
   │   ├── Package.md
   │   ├── build.gradle
   │   └── client.bal
   ├── build-config/
   ├── docs/
   │   └── spec/
   │       └── sanitations.md
   ├── examples/
   │   ├── README.md
   │   ├── build.gradle
   │   └── build.sh
   ├── gradle/
   ├── .gitignore
   ├── LICENSE
   ├── README.md
   ├── build.gradle
   ├── gradle.properties
   ├── gradlew
   ├── gradlew.bat
   └── settings.gradle
   ```

> **Tip**: The template includes placeholders for various fields. To update them with your connector-specific metadata, use the provided [Ballerina script](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/blob/main/library-templates/generated-connector-template/scripts/replace_placeholders.bal).

Detailed information on the Ballerina connector structure can be found in the [Ballerina module contribution guide](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-library/blob/main/docs/adding-a-new-ballerina-module.md#directory-structure).

> ## Step 2: Prepare the OpenAPI Specification

Reviewer 5: We follow sentence case for titles?

Author: Yes we do. Fixed in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9507.

> 1. Find the OpenAPI specification for the API you want to create a connector for. This is usually available in the API documentation.

Reviewer 5: We don't need `for` at the end?

Author: It seems like having `for` at the end is more grammatically correct in this case (verified with GPT too)

2. Execute the tests using the `bal test` command to verify the functionality of your connector.

> For detailed guidance on writing tests, check the [Ballerina testing guide](https://ballerina.io/learn/test-ballerina-code/test-a-simple-function/).

> For sample implementations, refer to the [test implementation of the Ballerina Twitter connector](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/tree/main/ballerina/tests).

## Step 5: Document the connector

Follow these steps to ensure your connector is well-documented:

1. Update `Module.md` and `Package.md` files

   These files will be displayed on the Ballerina Central package landing page. Ensure they introduce and explain the connector package clearly and comprehensively. Each file should include the following sections:
   
   - **Overview**: Provide a concise introduction to the connector, explaining its purpose and key features.
   - **Setup**: Offer step-by-step instructions on configuring the connector and any necessary prerequisites, such as API keys or environment setup.

>    - **Quickstart**: Include a simple, clear example that enable users to start using the connector immediately.

Reviewer 5: `enable` -> `enables`

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9507.

   - **Examples**: Link to additional use cases, providing context on how the connector can be used in different scenarios.

   > For reference, check the [Twitter connector documentation](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/blob/main/ballerina/Module.md).

> 2. Update the `README.md` file

Reviewer 5: Missing fullstop

Author: Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9507.

3. Write example use cases (optional)

   Providing practical examples helps users understand the connector better. These examples should show how the connector is used in real-world scenarios.

   - All the examples should be added under the `examples/` directory.
   - Each example should be added as a Ballerina package with its own `README.md` file, explaining the use case and how to run the example.

   > For reference, check the [Twitter connector examples](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerinax-twitter/tree/main/examples).

## Step 6: Publish the connector

Once you have completed the development and testing of your connector, you can publish it for others to use.

1. Make sure to update the `Ballerina.toml` file with the following details:
   - `org`: Your organization name.
   - `name`: The name of your connector.
   - `version`: The version of your connector.
   - `license`: The license under which your connector is distributed (Optional).
   - `authors`: Your name and email address (Optional).
   - `keywords`: Keywords to help users find your connector (Optional).

>    - `icon`: The relative path to the icon file, which will be shown as the connector logo in the Ballerina central (Optional).

Reviewer 5: Use upper case c for ` central` - and better link to central.ballerina.io

Author: +1. Updated in https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website/pull/9507.
